<html><b>PAUSATF OFFICIALS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MINUTES </b><br><br><b>January 22, 2006</b><br>
	<br><br>Meeting was held at the home of George Kleeman, 5104 Alhambra Valley Road, Martinez, CA.<br><br><b>Those attending:</b> Members of the Executive Board: Bruce Colman, George Kleeman, Jim Hume, John Murray, Leon Glover, Dick Connors, Jon Siegel, Phil Watkins. Guests: Sonny Maynard, John Luppes.<br><br>Meeting was called to order by Chairman, Bruce Colman at 2:03 PM.<br><br><b>Approval of Minutes</b> of Executive Board Meeting of October 30, 2005. Minutes corrected to strike the word &quot;no&quot; from the sentence on page 2 that read: &quot;There is no test...&quot; Phil Watkins moved to approve the amended minutes and seconded by John Murray. Yes all. No 0.<br><br><b>There were no personnel issues so there was no closed session. </b>&lt;<br><br><b>Chairman Colman added to the agenda the following items: </b>&lt;<br>Appointment to Treasurers Committee<br>Discussion of Annual Meeting<br>Insurance<br><br><b>Leon Glover was given National Track &amp; Field Officials Committee Outstanding Service Award by Chairman Colman</b>.<br><br><b>CHAIR'S REPORT: </b><br>&#x2022; <b>Income/Donations</b>:<br>
	$300.00 from Anonymous<br>
	$200.00 from University of San Francisco<br>$200.00 from Peninsula Athletic League<br>&#x2022; <b>Insurance</b>: Chairman Colman raised question of liability at non-sanctioned meets. Chairman Colman requested Vice Chair Phil Watkins to survey the situation, especially high school meets. U. C. Davis coach, Jon Vochatzer reported that he has insurance for volunteers working all sports at his school. Question came up if that includes sub-contractors too. Issue to be continued. Sonny Maynard reports that Stanford does not have insurance for the officials working the meets.<br>&#x2022; <b>Annual Meeting</b>: Phil Watkins reports that Jon Vochatzer has offered the UC Davis facilities again - and may even have a better venue for us this year.<br>&#x2022; <b>PAUSATF web site</b>: Chairman Colman to keep the meet calendar up to date monthly. Chairman Colman requested that anything to be posted on the site should be sent to him for posting.<br><br><b>COMMITTEE REPORTS:</b><br>
	&#x2022; <b>Training</b><br>
	George Kleeman reports that 131 people have attended our clinics so far this year and that there is a possibility of 160 by next week. The break down was: 21 @ San Francisco State (1 new official), 56 @ American River College (17 new officials) and 54 @ UC Davis (2 new RW &amp; LDR official). So far there are 11 new LDR officials and 4-5 new RW officials.<br>Jim Hume reports that we have 18 new members so far and 8 Field Lynx officials were trained.<br>
	Dick Connors reports that Mark Winitz had a good clinic at UC Davis.<br>&#x2022; <b>Awards</b>: Leon Glover reported that Emeritus officials get a certificate. Issue came up again about how many National Awards do we get. Last year we gave out 4 even though we were informed that we could have given out 7. George Kleeman said that we can give out a number equal to 10% of our membership during the entire Olympiad. The number of National Awards can vary from year to year. Leon Glover said that the typical number given out is 3 to 4 per year.<br>Leon Glover brought up the question of sending a certificate to officials who upgrade from one level to another. Jim Hume said he would send the names of those who have upgraded.<br>The issue of a new award was again broached - LDR-RW award. A straw vote was taken and it was inconclusive so the issue was continued for further consideration.<br>A possible new plaque for Dan &amp; Dell Dotta was discussed. The cost would be about $700.00 and would have to come out of the 2007 budget. No decision.<br><br><b>OLD BUSINESS:</b><br>&#x2022; <b>Emeritus Status</b>: Dick Connors moved for approval of the policy. Jim Hume second. John Luppes spoke to the issue. Jon Siegel called the question. Yes, all. No 0.<br>&#x2022; <b>Operating Policies:</b> John Murray spoke to the changes. Said most were to just clean up items. 2.6.3 clarifies the voting. 2.6.1 deleted &quot;and Emeritus Members.&quot; Mike Sands was credited with doing most of the revisions. Dick Connors moved to approve. Phil Watkins second. Discussion: we are eliminating secret ballot to allow electronic voting. Vote: Yes all. No 0.<br>&#x2022; <b>Operating Policies:</b> The operating policies of the Officials Committee are to reside with John Mansoor and the secretary of the Officials Committee.<br>&#x2022; <b>NCAA Officials:</b> Dick Connors reports that there are 106 applications so far and the cut off is March 1, 2006. He wants 230 including volunteers. The lead official in each event will receive instructions at 2 PM session the day before the meet. This year the lead official will be in charge of all venues for the event. Discussed the anomaly that Division II &amp; III pay officials and Division does not.<br><br><b>NEW BUSINESS:</b><br>&#x2022; <b>Code of Ethics</b>:<br>
	George Kleeman indicated that there are 3 versions to be considered. Jim Hume indicates that he likes version #2 without the last paragraph (uniforms). All agree that version #3 is out of contention. Discussion is had regarding the similarities of versions 1 &amp; 2. Jim Hume moves to adopt version #2. Dick Connors second. Version #1 Yes, all. No 0.<br>Discussion was then had about version #1. It was suggested to add a paragraph #17 to read: &quot;Personal use of cell phones and other electronic devices is not appropriate on the field of play.&quot; Jim Hume moved to include #17. John Murray second. Yes all. No 0. It was then agreed that Dick Connors and Jim Hume would edit version #1 to include 17 points in all and clean up some of the language.<br>&#x2022;<b> Official Uniform</b>:<br>
	George Kleeman suggested that any mention of an indoor uniform should be eliminated altogether because it is not used anymore. Therefore it was dropped from the uniform policy. The issue of type, color and style of hat brought out at least 15 suggestions from the 10 people present. The only thing that could be agreed upon was that Jim Hume, John Murray and Dick Connors would become the Officials Committee Hat Task Force. The OCHTF would determine the color of the hat and would recommend a type. This issue will be revisited. Chairman Colman brought up the issue of who can be an official vendor for shirts and other uniform parts. Chairman Colman will post on the PAUSATF web site the two known vendors we have now. Officials uniforms will be on the agenda for the next meeting.<br>It was unanimously agreed the National red-white-blue shirt is only to be worn when REQUIRED by meet director.<br>&#x2022; <b>Treasurer Committee</b>:<br>
	Chairman Colman nominated Margaret Sheehan to be a member of the PAUSATF Treasurer's Committee. All agreed.<br>&#x2022; <b>Annual Meeting</b>:<br>
	Phil Watkins stated that Jon Vochatzer has extended an invitation to hold the annual meeting at UC Davis again this year.<br>John Murray moved to accept the invitation. George Kleeman second. Yes All. No 0. The dates of August 27 and September 3 were proffered.<br><br><b>The next meeting will be on April 23, 2006</b><br><br>John Murray moved to adjourn. Phil Watkins second. Yes All. No 0.<br><b>Meeting was adjourned</b> @ 4:11 PM<br><br>
	

</html>

